---
title: Gatling Enterprise 1.23
menutitle: What's New in 1.23
seotitle: What's New in Gatling Enterprise 1.23
description: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.23
lead: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.23
date: 2024-11-13T11:00:00+02:00
lastmod: 2024-11-13T11:00:00+02:00
---

## Highlights

### Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 EOL

As previously announced, Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 will stopped being supported in Gatling Enterprise on January 1st, 2005.
No new release of Gatling Enterprise after this date will ship support for these versions.

As a reminder, Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 are based on the very outdated Scala 2.12. Gatling 3.4.2 was released 4 years ago.

### Java 11 and 17 load generator certified images deprecation for removal

With the now fast pace of new Java release, we can't keep on maintaining a wide range of certified images for AWS, GCP, Azure and Docker.

From now on, we'll only focus on:

* the latest Short Term Release (STS) version, currently Java 23
* the latest Long Term Release (LTS) version, currently Java 21

This means that:
* we'll no longer update existing images for Java 11 and Java 17
* if corporate rules force you to use Java 11 or Java 17, you are expected to build and maintain your own images
* for the next 3 months, new Gatling Enterprise releases will keep on accepting configured Java 11 and Java 17 certified images
* any new release after the next months will automatically upgrade existing configuration using Java 11 or Java 17 to Java 21
* at some point, expect Java 11 and Java 17 images to be removed

Please upgrade!

## Release Notes

### 1.23.0 (2024-11-13)

#### Gatling 3.13.1

This release introduces the support for the new Gatling 3.13 generation.

See release notes [3.13.1](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestone/129?closed=1).

#### Features

* SH-1032: OIDC: Introduce `defaultRole` conf option to define the default role of new users. Defaulting to `viewer`. Can be set to `none` to remove all default permissions.
